---
Title: "Buying Property in Australia 01: Introduction to Property Type"
Date: 2019-05-28
---

It has been almost a year since I arrived in Australia.

There have been many changes in the past year. Prepare for an interview, test English, apply for a visa, resign from Alibaba, move abroad, join a new company, pure English office, end the long-distance relationship and his wife really start living together. Then I went through the non-stop for permanent residence and successfully won the permanent residence in March this year. It’s really too late to fully adapt.

The original estimate of the Australian Immigration Service took about 16-19 months, and the surprise was that it was down in 6 months. It was almost speedy. Our original plan was to stay in the middle of 2020 and then start thinking about buying a house. Now the plan is greatly advanced.

Like many of our newcomers to Australia, we know almost nothing about Australian property. I only know that many people live in a big house (a single-family house) that looks great.

After the last two months of viewing, here is a summary of the current knowledge of buying a house.

First of all, what is buying in Australia? The difference between Australian real estate and China is still very large. It is necessary to first understand the types of Australian real estate.

Overall, Australia's properties can be divided into: House (detached villa), Apartment/Flat (apartment), Townhouse (townhouse), Villa (do not know 咋 translation 233... simply said single-storey townhouse), Rural (Village), Off the plan, Land, etc. Among them, Apartment is closer to the concept of community in China, but the apartments in Australia are generally independent buildings, and there will be no yards.

House (a single-family villa) is the absolute mainstream of Australian homes. If you look at it from the satellite map, you will find that the Australian homes are almost all Houses. Houses typically range in size from 300 square meters to several hectares. Generally speaking, the closer to the CBD (central business district), the smaller the land area, the more remote the land, the more similar the price. House is able to provide a large enough living space and event space, and offers a variety of additional expansion possibilities, such as a separate swimming pool, multiple parking spaces, and even a small yacht, RV. Australians love outdoor activities and a significant number of families buy small yachts and motor homes. I personally look forward to buying a RV at home and then hitting the small yacht. In addition, House does not need to pay property fees, only need to pay a small amount of municipality. It is also very important that House's land and houses are freehold property rights, and Australia has no inheritance tax, which can be passed down from generation to generation (communism here has something to say, haha). Although House has many advantages, the disadvantages are obvious. The first is that the house with the right price is almost far away from the CBD, and the one-way commute to work is almost an hour away. Not only that, but the cost of public transportation in Australia is not cheap. Take Sydney, my example. The fare for a one-way train is about 3.5 Australian dollars. The farther place is usually 5 Australian dollars. It is also a small month. Overhead. Second, House's care is also a big problem. A few hundred square meters or even a thousand square meters of house yards are particularly costly, and Australia's artificial talent is extremely rare, it is almost impossible to take care of people. I usually work very tired, and it takes a lot of time to take care of it. It is still very tired, and I can't be lazy. If your yard is overgrown, the neighbors are likely to go to the city to report, and it will be very painful to be fined. Another disadvantage is that House is generally difficult to rent out, even if the rental price will be very low, which is commonly referred to as low rental-to-sale ratio and poor investment value.

The apartment is another mainstream choice for Australian. Compared to House, the apartment is generally cheaper and can be very close to the CBD reducing much of commuting time. Besides that, the apartment's maintenance cost is pretty low. Mostly just involves some home cleaning. Most of the strata will equip the apartment with the monitor, access control and other facilities which means it's safer to live in the apartment than in House. Since it is closer to the CBD, the apartment could easy to rent out at a relatively good price which makes a better rental-to-sale ratio. However, when choosing the apartment, don't forget to pay attention to age. This may not be the concern in China, but quite a lot of Australia's apartments have existed for decades or even hundreds of years. The purchase of these old apartments carries the risk of high property maintenance fees. Usually, the strata fee is around 800-1500 AUD per quarter. Any strata fee exceeds 1,500 Australian dollars is quite expensive to most people. When those old apartements need to be repaired, the strata fee will rise significantly high, and I had seen several those cases happned recently the strata fee rising to 3,000 Australian dollars per quarter. So, choosing an old apartment should be take that into consideration. By the way, the price of the apartment in Australia is not calculated based on the area which is quite different from what China does. Instead, there are multiple dimensions to measure the price, such as the number of rooms, qulity of decoration, area, school catchment, sun light, etc. There is no simple standard to calculate the price of Apartment.

Townhouse/Villa is a compromise between House and Apartment. It combines the best of both worlds with both. Townhouse/Villa generally refers to connected or unconnected cottages that share a piece of land property. Normally, Townhouse will be in a row and directly along the street; Villa usually has a relatively large enclosed courtyard. In terms of privacy, Villa feels better. Townhouse/Villa is generally much cheaper than House, the price is close to Apartment, but it has more living space than Apartment. It's worth noting that Townhouse/Villa also has a property fee, but it is usually much cheaper than the Apartment, usually in the quarter of 300-600 Australian dollars, and will not encounter the problem of building property fees, because everyone is Independent house. The Townhouse/Villa will be between 100 and 300 square meters. Compared to House, the area that needs to be managed is greatly reduced, and the space for activities is quite generous. I am currently more inclined to buy this.

Off the plan, also known as the uncompleted floor, is similar to the domestic concept, in which the developer only sells the real estate model and development plan and starts selling the house. After a few years, buyers can only accept the house. This type of property is in most cases Apartment. If you have full confidence in the market, you can look at it as a good investment choice, but it is not recommended for self-occupation.

Land (land) is also relatively small in the market. For ordinary homebuyers, buying land is not significant unless you have the energy to design and build a home. The process of building a house is cumbersome and time consuming, requiring multiple government approvals, and the Australian labor is particularly expensive and costly to build. Despite this, buying the land and designing it yourself is the best choice to live 100% satisfied with the house.

Rural (village) is rarely seen, and the land is shared. I haven't seen Rural yet, not too well understood.

The above is a brief introduction to Australian real estate. Here are some common points.

Property rights issue. Australia is a capitalist private state. Once a land house is purchased, it is a private property with permanent property rights. There is no concept of China's 70-year property rights. At the same time, unlike the United States, Australia currently has no inheritance tax and it is very easy to inherit property.

price problem. Australian property prices are more complicated to calculate, not by area. In general, Apartment will also mark the area, which is the actual internal area, and there is no concept of pooled area. The number of bedrooms, the number of balconies, the number of parking spaces, and the area in which they are located will be considered together to calculate the price. Market conditions, negotiation ability can determine the final actual transaction price.

How to hunt the property. The Australian real estate market is relatively standardized, basically through the real estate agent to buy and sell houses. Intermediaries usually schedule Saturdays, sometimes open on Wednesdays. The visit time is generally limited to half an hour. During the concentrated time period, there will be many potential buyers who have come to see the house. My viewing experience is all open on Saturday. On weekdays, people are generally reluctant to go out to see the house. Sunday is Australia's family day, the day of family reunion, and public transportation is capped at 2.7 Australian dollars, so there will be no room for viewing. In addition to the open day, you can also make an appointment by phone or email agent.

How to find a listing. My experience is to use Internet products such as [Domain] (https://www.domain.com.au/), [Realestate](https://www.realestate.com.au). Sometimes there are places to live. The surrounding property flyers will be sent to the mailbox.

Investment housing from housing. Buying a house in Australia needs to first determine whether it is for self-occupation or for investment purposes. These two properties belong to different categories. Self-housing can live by itself, but there is no way to enjoy tax rebates. Investment rooms can not be self-occupied (can secretly live ^_^), can be rented, can be used to offset taxes.

First write here, next time write the problem of the down payment tax on the purchase of a house.
